# MODEL1006230070: Earm1990_CalciumDynamics_Cardiac

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1006230070.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1006230070.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This a model from the article:  
**A model of the single atrial cell: relation between calcium current and calcium release.**   
Earm YE, Noble D. _Proc R Soc Lond B Biol Sci_ 1990 May 22;240(1297):83-96
[1972993](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1972993) ,  
**Abstract:**   
The hypothesis that calcium release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum in cardiac
muscle is induced by rises in free cytosolic calcium (Fabiato 1983, Am. J.
Physiol 245) allows the possibility that the release could be at least partly
regenerative. There would then be a non-linear relation between calcium
current and calcium release. We have investigated this possibility in a
single-cell version of the rabbit-atrial model developed by Hilgemann & Noble
(1987, Proc. R. Soc. Lond. B 230). The model predicts different voltage ranges
of activation for calcium-dependent processes (like the sodium-calcium
exchange current, contraction or Fura-2 signals) and the calcium current, in
agreement with the experimental results obtained by Earm et al. (1990, Proc.
R. Soc. Lond. B 240) on exchange current tails, Cannell et al. (1987, Science,
Wash. 238) by using Fura-2 signals, and Fedida et al. (1987, J. Physiol.,
Lond. 385) and Talo et al. (1988, Biology of isolated adult cardiac myocytes)
by using contraction. However, when the Fura-2 concentration is sufficiently
high (greater than 200 microM) the activation ranges become very similar as
the buffering properties of Fura-2 are sufficient to remove the regenerative
effect. It is therefore important to allow for the buffering properties of
calcium indicators when investigating the correlation between calcium current
and calcium release.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Earm YE, Noble D. (1990) - version=1.0**
](http://models.cellml.org/exposure/fece2ac4d113bcd752cda14ba9926e4b)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Penny Noble**   
penny.noble@dpag.ox.ac.uk  
The University of Oxford  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not. .  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


